---
toc: true
layout: post
description: A brief of Taiwan's political and electoral history
categories: [intro, Taiwan, vote, election]
title: Introduction (manually pinned)
---
# Introduction

Two major parties dominate Taiwan’s political stage. One is Kuomintang (KMT), alternatively translated as Chinese Nationalist Party, once the monopoly dominant party ruling under martial law in Taiwan for 38 years until 1988. KMT is pro-China, relatively conservative on social issues. The other is Democractic Progress Party (DPP), was originally founded during the martial law era when competing parties were illegal, now is pro-independence from China and relatively progressive on human rights and equality issues.

## A Glance at the Two Parties

Geographically, DPP usually win majority votes in southern cities, such as Tainan and Pingtung, while KMT win northern and eastern cities, from Taipei, Hualien to Taitung. In demographical view, government employees, military workers and teachers are considered as KMT’s solid supporters because of the party’s lucrative welfare policy for these groups. DPP was seen as a grass root party with its supporters from blue-collar workers and taxi drivers in early years. After Tsai Ing-Wen, Taiwan’s first female president and DPP’s chairwoman at that time, took office in 2016,  DPP developed a stable strategy in security and diplomacy. The party has since then built a more elite image once held by KMT.

(More background and history here)

## Elections

(Taiwan’s election design)

## Electoral District

(Taiwan’s administrative and electoral district. What is the smallest district: village)
